Might be interesting that... Let's
see needs have people hostage or engage
in ransom taking to get 100% of your way they're trying to
hold veterans hostage to force Obamacare
on the American people you cannot
negotiate with a hostage situation we've
got a group to think that they can hold
America hostage the president somehow
wants to keep this hostage they've taken
hostages no person should be held
hostage holding our government hostage
holding the u.s. hostage hold the entire
country hostage oh they took hostage
well Thursday thanks for hostages they
had to take the country hostage
whether or not it's it's it's correct to
kind of use the hostage terms of by
politicians when you see this as
somebody who's negotiated a lot when you
see what's going on Washington what
jumps out to you well there's two things
about that you know on a personal note I
like that they use the word because then
it gives me a chance to be on your show
focus on anything his company is called
the Black Swan group that is the
baddest-ass name I have ever heard I
love that now what is the Black Swan
group that's like the coolest what is
that thank you very much a Black Swan is
something unusual that has a great
impact and we like to think that the way
we negotiate is a great impact
all right how often do you get a chance
to make Anderson Cooper laughs right all
right but there's actually a negotiation
lesson in there which I'll get to in a
minute but I you know I can remember I
was sitting there then and they've got
you in a room that's kind of a dark
closet a light shines in your eyes and
you wait to come on and I'm hearing like
hostage this hostage that Barack Obama
hostage taking a country hostage and I'm
thinking you know I don't know this
seems like a straight line I just can't
let this go one of the things that we
talked about in negotiation and how you
will get better as a negotiator never be
so sure of what you want that you
wouldn't take something better all right
so fine yeah what does that mean on top
of that how do I make that happen
interestingly enough the inside is a
negotiation tip there which two-thirds
of us are not that good good with I
don't tell that joke
Jeffrey Tobin doesn't give me the best
commercial of my company ever gotten his
company is a Black Swan group that is a
baddest-ass name I ever heard imagine if
they were in preparation and they're
talking about going on camera and Tobin
says you know Black Swan it sounds kind
of cool you know I I'm gonna say it's a
badass name Anderson Cooper everybody
else says no that's stupid don't do that
you know the proof sir gets in his ear
and says don't do that that's a dumb
idea but getting people to do something
stuff Spontini spontaneously in a
negotiation how do you do that well the
brain works up to 31 percent better in a
positive frame of mind 31% it's no small
jump you make yourself 31 percent
smarter just being in a positive frame
of mind you're 31 percent more likely to
come up with a better answer in a
positive frame of mind we have things in
our head called mirror neurons I smile
at somebody in the front it hits your
mirror neurons you smile back
involuntarily
what's that happen I've just triggered a
chemical change in your brain started to
pick up your mental processes with that
smile I tell a joke Jeffrey Tobin's
brain picks up a little bit more he's in
a better mood in a negotiation he's
willing to give me one of the best
commercials I
national TV for free how much do I
paying for that never be so sure of what
you want they wouldn't take something
better how do you make these things
happen
I'm gonna give you a couple of ideas
tiny little things 2 millimeter shifts
we're gonna have Tony Robbins here later
this afternoon I'm a big Tony Robbins
fan he talks about the 2 millimeter
ships that make all the difference in
the world would it give you some of
those 2 millimeter shifts so I was the
FBI's leading international kidnapping
negotiator I handled the kidnapping
negotiation strategy of every American
kidnapped overseas might ask yourself
how often is Chris Wallace busy when
he's doing that well it's a big world
there are a lot of Americans doing
stupid things and crazy places some of
you in this room managed to get away
with something bad so we got that way
before the earthquake in Haiti we've got
a just kidnapping is out of control but
it's dual nationals they don't know
they're grabbing Americans which comes
to be the case in many cases of
Americans being kidnapped overseas bad
guys think they got a local happens to
be a dual national one of the great
things about the United States of
America do you know how many countries
in the world that you're citizen of that
country if you're born in that country
like I grew up thinking that was just
natural and normal yeah I was born in of
course I'm a citizen must be that way
everywhere one other developed nation
Canada not one country in Europe not
Australia they think you're born in
Australia an American citizen they're
the earth´s Australian see Australian
citizen they laugh at you it's a
birthright that we take for granted one
of the great things about this country
country is not perfect a lot of good
things about it what does that have to
do with this story Haitian moms know
there's a very best gift they could
potentially give their child on their
child's first actual birthday it's a
gift of American citizenship one way or
another Haitian moms by hook or by crook
find themselves on American soil so the
child can be born American citizenship
and all the things that that immediately
brings with it so a kidnapping business
model in Haiti at the time this is
before the earthquake
kidnapping is a business it's
commodities business to us it's horrible
to them it's another day at the office
understand the business at your
counterparts in how they see it how you
see it doesn't matter which it did
doesn't it's a business in Haiti
business model is it's a great business
model car checker car with more than one
person in it
keep a car in a person let the other
person go they're gonna let them know
they probably they were in a car with
them they probably know who their
families you can tell them they got
kidnapped I'd if they got enough money
for a car and gas money they plug onto
money for a ransom get it you got a car
in Haiti at the time you probably got
some money it's a great target for a
kidnapping what happens if you know the
person you grabbed was one person and
family nobody likes you still got a car
it's a great business model say good and
if there's a kid in there he's done
better families more likely to pay 12
your boy gets grabbed in carjacking and
Haiti father is not an American citizen
but he knows his son is and he's told
that the the FBI is gonna help now I
don't know what went through his mind
when he was told that the FBI was gonna
help him but I could imagine that
probably he figured maybe about 15
minutes later he's gonna hear on a front
door and Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones
were saying you know maybe maybe he
might have FBI hats on no no instead 15
minutes later he gets a call from some
guy in Washington DC says his name is
Chris Foster he's gonna help
he literally says to me on the phone
you're in Washington DC how you gonna
help me how long have I got four he
hangs up seriously what do you say what
do you say to this guy how do you lay
this out
how long before he hangs up maybe ten
everybody you deal with maybe less
intensely when they interact with you
says to themself how you gonna help me
they don't they don't with less
intensity but it's the same question
everybody that you interact with it's
not an unfair question to ask how are
you gonna help me now I've done this
wrong before how do I know what to say
because I did it wrong before remember
the first time I was in the Philippines
on a kidnapping which I'm gonna tell you
about a couple minutes I showed up the
FBI's expert which pretty much at the
time made me the expert for the United
States government and I'm walking to
room that in the Philippines everybody's
shorter everybody below the president
everybody but the president Philippines
is in a room Secretary of Defense
president's personal advisor all the
cabinet members who are you you know why
should we rely on you and I make the
mistake of trotting out my resume FBI
this many years train not only trained
to Quantico but I teach at Quantico now
I wrote the book at Quantico lay out my
my resume my my experience they might as
well have looked yawned in my face cuz
they've never seen me before so I've
made this mistake before and you guys
know a resume correlates loosely with
whether or not you know how to do a job
if your resume shows for sure that you
could do a job you'd never lose one
they'd never be a bad hire they'd never
be an employee that didn't work out
correlates loosely with whether or not
you know how to do the job so do I say
this father in Haiti I got maybe
somewhere between 3 and 10
yes well the line goes there this is
what I said
all right so Haitian kidnappers are not
killing kidnap victims these days I
realized it's really stupid because they
kill each other at the drop of a hat but
for whatever reason and not killing
kidnap victims now today is Thursday and
Haitian kidnappers love the party on
Saturday night if you say the things I
want you to say and you do the things
that I asked you to do we'll have your
son out by late Friday early Saturday
morning he said tell me what you want me
to do and we had his son out Saturday
morning did I lay my resume out did I
lay a strategy out I begin to provide
value
what's your value proposition what I did
was I showed him in less than 10 seconds
that I saw what he was looking at and I
offered the slightest amount of insight
into the dynamic and anybody that you
deal with the first question they ask
themselves is do you see what I see I
didn't say I understand to try to
shortcut the process it doesn't take
that much longer so delay to save time
10 seconds 15 times telling them in no
uncertain terms there's no doubt in his
mind that I see what he sees and I have
the slightest and if I see what he sees
the chances are that I got answers to it
are very high he never asked me how many
kidnappings I worked he never asked me
how many times how many kidnappings in
Haiti I worked the qualifier questions
how long you've been in this industry
what's your resume how many times you've
done this before he didn't ask me how
many kidnappings had worked in Haiti he
never asked me how many times I've been
to Haiti you know how many times I've
been to Haiti never been there he didn't
ask me what languages I speak do you
speak French do you speak Creole do you
know you may ask yourself Chris Voss and
I was the international negotiation
coach really I coached negotiations all
over the world how many languages is
Chris Paul speak by now you realize the
answer that is almost one
and a lot of languages in there I'm
happy with complete sentences and don't
hold me to pronunciations but I
understand negotiations I understand -
oh she Asian skills here's a bad news
for what's the bad news you know it
works where people are involved won't
work any other time cuz I get asked all
the time I said working real estate it's
a working media to media negotiations
you know what stuff doesn't work it
doesn't work it doesn't work where
people aren't involved so I'm gonna talk
to a couple get you out of a couple of
bad habits real quick what's hurting you
the most in your negotiations this is
addicted to yes I mean you got a bad
addiction - yes you know was that kind
of a meeting right hi I'm addicted - yes
hi Chris here's the problem with yes
we're all taught its of gold the gold
end of the rainbow where we want to go
do you want to be a better negotiator
would you like to make more money would
you like to have more free time bigger
house buy my book boom yes is always a
trap it's always a trap I don't know if
this ever was a good idea maybe there
was a point in time that it was a good
idea to get people in - yes mode or mere
agreement the theory of that if I get
you saying yes to a little yeses the
chances are that you're gonna say yes to
the big yes is much higher there's
actually a study out there that says
that that works if you find out if you
hear there's a study that says something
more take a hard look at the study see
if you agree with how it's done but even
better still ask yourself if you pick up
the phone six o'clock at night I don't
care what time it is one o'clock in the
afternoon and a person on the other end
of the line says would you like to make
more money do you go thank God you
called I've been waiting all day long or
somebody to ask me that question
somebody calls you on the phone and says
have you got a few minutes to talk well
nobody immediately says yes any question
there are three kinds of yeses
commitment confirmation and counterfeit
people have gotten us try to walk us in
the commitment he has so much with
confirmation yes that the vast majority
of us are good with counterfeit yes
that's all you ever hear counterfeit yes
nobody in my company or that I've
trained ever calls people on the phone
and says have you got a few minutes to
talk nobody what does that do to you
when somebody asks you that's a it's at
least four questions in one if I have a
few minutes do I want to talk to you I
have a few minutes I don't want to talk
to you do I want to talk about what you
want to talk about how long is a few
minutes how do I get off the phone
the problem is why all these questions
are running through your mind you're
actually not listening to the other
person it's equivalent to talking to
someone who has another person
whispering in their ear watch out it's
coming you know there's a hook how long
it's gonna be there taking you somewhere
be careful be careful that person is
whispering in there all the time so the
very first thing you could do is get out
of that and believe me that's gonna be
one of the hardest things you have to
overcome it's not complicated it's
really difficult to break that habit
I hope I'm getting you to the point
where you're worried about that so you
might be asking yourself right so now
what am I supposed to do well anybody
recognize this guy Jack Welch came
through Los Angeles but two and a half
years ago with his wife Suzy the
real-life MBA I'm at a book signing I
want to ask Jack well sir coming be
guest speaker at the negotiation class I
teach at USC Marshall School of Business
in the MBA program how many people in
that book son you're gonna ask Jack
Walter to say yes or something easily
200 people come through the book signing
Jack want to come over to the house Jack
come come we be Godfather to my my child
how many how many yeses are gonna try to
get out of them in the book that day
that week how many people are trying to
get Jack Walter say yes on top of
everything else this is a book signing
up to 300 people walking through how
long do I have with Jack Welch they ask
you your name write on a piece of paper
Jack looks ups Chris when I stay keep
going they don't want me there for
logistics reasons they don't want me
bothering him on top of that Jack
Walters his celebrity he's legitimate
celebrities got a security detail I'm
gonna be within arm's length of Jack
what so what am I gonna do to him and
you know I I could kiss him they don't
know what I'm gonna do right how much do
I have less time with Jack Wilson I had
with the Haitian father so I walked
knowing this hostage negotiator I know
how the brain works emotionally I woke
up to Jack Walton I say is it a
ridiculous idea
for you to come and speak to the
negotiation course I teach at USC and he
looks up and to the left of his face
just freezes just gets this really
intense look on his face and I think to
myself I just killed Jack Walsh I mean I
got scared
first I figured he's gonna fall he had a
stroke he's gonna fall over the
Securities gonna tackle me they could
drag me on handcuffs I'm gonna say but
I'm an FBI agent
so initially when he doesn't die I'm
relieved but now I figure he's gonna
start he's still security security he
doesn't do that either he looks back you
mean he says it's my personal assistants
name this is a Twitter account that we
have set up her I will call her and tell
her who you are what you're gonna be
reaching out to her about I think we're
gonna be in Los Angeles in fall if we
are we'll come in and speak to you class
what I get him to say instead of trying
to get it you'd be shocked at what
people are willing to say no to as
insane as it is all the problems of
trying to get somebody to say yes the
complete opposite happens when they say
no people feel protected they feel safe
their brain clears up you'd be shocked
at what people are willing to say no to
I coach some of my students and some of
my clients that are in job negotiations
to say to their bosses do you want me to
fail you'd be shocked shocked shocked at
what people will comfortably say no to
we do it all the time when you get home
Google Ronald Reagan are you better off
Ronald Reagan Presidential first time he
was elected president when he beat Jimmy
Carter their last presidential debate he
stood up in front of the American public
and said next Tuesday you go to the
voting booth next Tuesday you have a
decision to make which by the way is
exactly what I did when I was laying
things out to the Haitian kid now
this is what you see this is what you're
gonna look at this is what you're faced
with Megan is smart enough to just lay
this out he knows he's getting your
attention by telling you what you're
gonna look at he says I just ask you
this question are you better off than
you were four years ago have you got
more spending power than you had four
years ago is America in better shape
that was four years ago succession of no
questions no no no no no says if the
answer to any of these questions are yes
and then your your choice is clear but
if it's no well I'd ask you to vote for
me no no no no no make a deal you got
elected give you one other subtle
insight what if knows not enough what do
you do next here's what you want really
want people to say this is the game
changer it doesn't seem wonderful you
see that's right and you don't feel the
heavens apart and the birds chirp and a
choir sing but when other people say
that's right you'd be stunned at the
transformation that they go through the
last presidential election whether
you're a Republican or Democrat when you
watched the presidential debates in
either candidate that you supported said
something that you believed in you you
said that's right that's what you say
when the other person have said
something that you completely buy into
there's an actual chemical change that
happens it's a combination of an
establishment of empathy and epiphany
simultaneously and suddenly you feel you
so so much more connected to the person
that got you to say that's right now I
need to point out very clearly that this
is not your right your right is the
worst form of false agreement that there
is it's probably costs people and
companies more money across the board
and cause people to accuse each other of
being liars when one of your colleagues
at your job when anybody in your life is
after you about something and they won't
let up and you want to maintain the
relationship but you just want to shut
up
what do you say to you look him in the
eye and go you're right they go yeah and
they go away and they come back the next
day and go whoa wait a minute we talked
yesterday I laid out my case I told you
everything I was talking about and you
look at them again you go again you're
right okay they leave again
nobody would ever do that to you would
they so the two millimeter shifts from
getting the other person to say you're
right there that's right does it work on
social passes are working kidnappings
this American got grabbed overseas he's
being held by our friend up here on the
right hand side and this is a bad to the
bone sociopathic rape and murder and
killer named subbaiah so bite is as bad
as they come it's no coincidence that
he's got on sunglasses a black bandana
black t-shirt he always dressed up like
this because terrorists like the media
that's why you're in a terrorism
business you want attention it's a cry
for help he always made sure he got
himself photographed but like this
American is wandered into the wrong
place to the wrong times being held and
there's a ten million dollar demand for
his release this is guy I'm coaching a
great human being one of the few people
on a planet I would literally trust with
the life of my son and in the
Philippines this is no small amount of
trust
he actually recently at the time he was
a colonel he recently retired from the
Philippines he was the number three
general on Philippine National Police a
legitimate hero and a bad-to-the-bone
himself guy because he was the leader of
the special action force which was
Philippine National Police version of
the Navy SEALs when I met this man he
had personally led 30 rescue operations
for kidnapping victims that year it was
only August give you an idea how often
they're out the door and he and his guys
didn't take handcuffs so that means 30
firefights we get into the midst of the
negotiation with our terrorists
still made it for four months and I tell
my guy you know what we're gonna do
today we're gonna get it that's right
out of the other side that's right out
of a sociopath that's right out of a
killer because if they're not coming
down by one penny on the ten million
dollar ransom
so we coach them up we get the
terrorists on the phone and my guy
repeats chapter and verse all the other
sides of nonsense you know how asking
for ransom you're asking for war damages
you're asking for ten million dollars of
economic harm it's happened in this
Philippines for the last 500 years from
the Spanish to the Japanese to the
Americans in atrocities under blackjack
Pershing now I realize that this doesn't
apply to you because you would never be
in a discussion with somebody where they
brought up stuff that had nothing to do
with the situation would you nobody
would ever bring up something that
happened in the past that had been
resolved for years and bring it back up
again that never happens to you
so we summarized all the nonsense that
this terrorist had been spouting the
sociopaths have been spouting my guy got
done there was a moment of silence and a
terrorist said that's right another
moment of silence and my guy says talk
again in a couple of days we went from
ten million dollars to zero in that
moment it went away they never brought
up money again a couple of months later
the American walks away we fly them out
of the Philippines the terrorists got
nothing zero I'm back in the Philippines
three weeks later on another case I
connect up with my guy he says you're
not gonna believe who called me on the
phone I don't know who called you on the
phone
our terrorists still knew him by his
undercover name had the undercover
number calls him on phone and literally
says have you been promoted yet
I don't know what you said to me on the
phone but whatever was I was gonna kill
the American you stop me from doing your
really good they should promote you
hangs up the phone
what's he saying he's saying I deal with
you again at the end of a negotiation
where he got nothing
he called his counterpart up on the
phone to pay his respects everybody that
you deal with regardless of how much
they get out of it should be willing to
say to you after the negotiation yeah
I'd talk to you again
I feel respected by you that's the way
you should leave everybody that's what
builds a long term career that's what
builds success in your negotiations and
that approach the tactical approach of
empathy and getting that's right side of
people give you the opportunity because
we made mistakes people used to say to
me you know what's it like when the
slightest mistake and somebody get
killed said it wasn't a slut we're gonna
make mistakes
I took an approach overall that gave me
latitude because I knew occasionally I
would make mistakes I do my preparation
I'd get into a negotiation I do and I do
and I'd say something wrong but take an
approach based on this genuinely trying
to understand the other side for
sociopathic reasons not for missionary
reasons but for mercenary reasons
because of how much latitude it gives
you in the negotiation understand you're
not going to be perfect don't try to be
perfect
so in closing allow me to leave you with
this problems how to overcome problems
even matter how regardless of your
preparation
a proof of life video that's what
they're called the ultimate good news
bad news story if you're ever
unfortunate enough to see one today hot
today's high stakes rescue mission in
Columbia ended a drama that has been
dragging on for years Kris Voss is the
former FBI lead the International
kidnapping negotiator he worked on them
so in terms of preparation what have I
done wrong here
my hair sticking out now this is the
first time I was on CNN Anderson Cooper
like I'm enthusiastic about being here I
mean I think this is cool
I'm a small-town boy from Iowa son of
Richard and Joyce have lost time to
7,000 people Anderson Cooper a million
people gonna watch this you go in there
you go through makeup makeup then you
put you in a room that's a big dark
closet light shines right in your eyes I
say look right below the light down to
the left is a monitor I say do you want
it's gonna go live when we go live do
you want it off Iran I go I leave that
baby on
I never seen me on TV before I want to
see me on TV so we have just gone live
and I'm looking down as you can see I'm
looking down at the monitor and I've
realized my hair sticking out the
additional problem is the monitors a
mirror image so I don't know what's out
of my head they're sticking up
this is my first issue I got a I'm a
negotiator I gotta figure stuff out I
got I got a workout option so I have to
identify which side of my head the hair
is this case from the beginning until
retirement of last year
I know why I thought move my head around
you're gonna make my hair like shake or
something and I'd be able to tell but
you see from look at my face I'm like
now it didn't work I feel the one where
it is so I gotta decide what to do how
much time do I got my mom's probably
watching this back in Iowa all these
friends from a Bible study class are
watching this you know you can't teach
you son how to comb his hair so I'm
sitting there trying to decide you know
and tonight how can I handle it you know
and I realized what can't I do I can't
lick my hand and do that some senators
on each side
why don't they gonna make me look worse
I know the Bruce is going like Hanson's
hairs perfect let's go side by side
somebody can see this thing but is no
Anderson Cooper mr. perfect hair on a
planet
let's make him look bad it's like being
the before it was a fat guy in the
before-and-after right so I'm sitting
there I'm trying to decide what to do
when can I make my move how many moves
can I make what can I do you know work
up the courage closely involved in this
finally
I'm kind of disgusted right now but it
went on to finish the interview and they
did ask me back so what I'm here to tell
you is you'll make mistakes and they
won't be the end of everything and let
yourself make mistakes it's gonna be
okay have a good steady process where
you treat people with respect and
appreciation you use empathy in a
positive way not because you're a nice
guy you are but because it works got a
free newsletter texts to sign up FBI
empathy all one word don't let it
spellcheck it take it out of it
so in closing and this is only if you
want it's for free only if you want then
we bother with it if you don't want
remember remember I mentioned Will Smith
and Tommy Lee Jones at the beginning men
in black well they actually worked for
me I like everybody stand up please
stand up but it stand up remember the
little red flashy thing all right got
one right here
we look up here watch very closely all
right after today you'll take an
approach with people what's not a
problem to treat them with respect
you're gonna make people feel good about
dealing with you so that no matter what
the outcome is they'll let you know that
after they dealt with you they're
willing to continue to deal with you on
other projects because they felt
respected they felt appreciation and
they felt some kind of way they don't
know what it was but they felt like a
bond with you so move through the rest
of your careers by that with that and
you'll be very happy where it takes you
thank you for spending time with me
today a completely enjoyed beer